[Music]
hey how about a mystery
you okay with that alright here are the
oldest technologies that scientists can
explain if you think that advanced
technology is only a present-day
commodity then you're in for a big
surprise thousands of years ago
great minds managed to create incredible
technologies that were way ahead of
their time like a fire that couldn't be
extinguished by water an unbreakable
medieval sword and even an ancient
computer from 200 BCE if you're ready to
learn more about these mind-blowing
ancient inventions plus a whole lot more
then keep on watching but before we hop
into our time machine and blast off into
the past don't forget to subscribe to
our channel and turn on post
notifications so that you won't miss any
of the daily updates on the bright side
of life now let's kick off this list at
number 10 the stone globes of Costa Rica
you can easily make a stone shaped
object out of clay by molding it however
the people living in Costa Rica during
ancient times did it the hard way
literally in the 1930s spheres ranging
from a few inches to more than 6 feet in
size were discovered in the decay Delta
region of Costa Rica and no they weren't
made from clay but from a hard igneous
stone called granodiorite hundreds of
these stone spheres were found quarried
in the foothills of the talamanca
mountains researchers even saw a
gigantic ball weighing over 16 times so
who would paint staking lee carve
perfect spheres out of giant rocks was
this some kind of ancient hobby or an
offering to the gods maybe a ginormous
soccer ball we still don't know who the
mastermind or minds behind these stone
orbs were according to studies they were
made as early as 200 BCE but whoever was
doing it stopped when Spanish colonizers
showed up in the area during the 16th
century so
it looks like they did have ample time
to carve all these stones more or less
eighteen hundred years but how did they
do it well granted I rate rocks can
easily be carved using temperature
techniques first they heated up some
section using hot coals and then cooled
it off with cold water
next they hammered it using harder
materials that were strong enough to
chip the stone for the finishing touch
they polished it using sand or leather
this was the same process used to create
small stone axes and statues as for what
purpose these spherical stones served
well unfortunately that remains one of
the most baffling mysteries in
archaeology I got it
let's send in Indiana Jones well
researchers assumed that they were used
as a compass or for astronomical
observations since some were found in
patterns of lines triangles and
parallelograms others theorized that the
stone globes were a status symbol of the
rich and influential families at the
time ah I guess we'll never know
number nine the Roman dodecahedron we
can thank the ancient Romans for
inventing such modern-day conveniences
as concrete roads and highways toilets
and newspapers to name a few I think the
Vespa actually came later these Roman
inventions have a pretty straightforward
approach on how to use them the same
however can't be said about the dough de
heck yeah sorry the dodecahedron well
you try to say it these strange hollow
objects made from bronze or stone were
discovered about 200 years ago they have
12 flat pentagonal shaped faces with a
knob protruding on each corner over a
hundred of these dodecahedra were found
in Hungary Great Britain Switzerland
Belgium Austria Germany the Netherlands
France Luxembourg and Poughkeepsie all
which used to be part of the great Roman
Empire well not pick it see that's in
New York the objects range in size from
an inch and a half to a little over four
inches and some date way back to the
second or third year see II the ancient
Romans
had a habit of keeping records but none
were found for their dodecahedra
researchers do have a few theories
though the dodecahedron might have been
a dice a kid's toy a candle holder a
simple decoration a measuring device on
the battlefield or an astronomical
instrument to name a few experts really
have no idea so the Roman dodecahedra
remain a mystery yet to be solved number
8 the Phaistos disc in crete in 1908
Italian archaeologist Luigi Bernier
found the Phaistos disc in the Minoan
Palace in the city of Phaistos on the
Greek island of Crete it's made from
clay and measures about 6.2 inches in
diameter it's covered on both sides with
243 symbols arranged in a spiral pattern
experts guessed that the disc was
created sometime between 1400 and 1850
BCE but its meaning and purpose remain a
complete mystery at first it was thought
to be some sort of hoax but that didn't
stop scientists and decipher us from
cracking the code of the face dose disk
experts originally argued that it was
something like a movable typewriter but
dr. Gareth Owens a linguist and
researcher at the technological
educational institute of Crete thought
otherwise
in collaboration with Professor John
Coleman from the phonetics department at
Oxford University they concluded that it
was a prayer to an ancient Minoan
goddess the disk which is now on display
at the her Ackley on Archaeological
Museum is about 90 percent deciphered
but only on one side so it seems this
4,000 year old mystery is not yet fully
unraveled number 7 Greek fire everybody
knows that water beats fire right well
it looks like Greek fire doesn't adhere
to the laws of physics this sorta napalm
of ancient times was introduced by
Byzantine Greeks in the 7th century CE
II
in fact it was such a precious asset to
the kingdom that Emperor Romano's ii of
Constantinople declared that aside from
the Byzantine Imperial regalia and any
royal princess noticed the order Greek
fire must not end up in foreign hands at
all costs for that reason its formula
was a well guarded state secret for over
seven centuries a whole lot longer than
the stealth fighter jet what was that
five minutes so how was this
super-secret seventh century military
weapon used and was it really that
effective well to answer that first
question Greek fire was used in naval
warfare and yes it got the job done all
right
the highly combustible liquid was
carried by Byzantine ships and launched
onto enemy vehicles immediately setting
ablaze anything and anyone on board even
the water below it it was indeed hot hot
hot
number six Damascus steel invented by
Middle Eastern sword smiths at around
five hundred seee blades made from
Damascus steel we're the most
sought-after in medieval Europe and this
because they were the best swords at the
time hard flexible and beautiful weapons
made from Damascus steel were of
extraordinary quality in fact these
swords were rumored to be able to slice
right through a falling silk scarf which
came in really handy if you were ever
attacked by a silk merchant experts
believe that the iron in Damascus steel
was yielded from wootz a type of Indian
steel that was made over 2,000 years ago
in the third and fourth century wootz
became a popular trade item in the city
of Damascus where of course the steel
that Europe was trying to get its hands
on at the time was coming from the
technique to create this marvelous sword
was lost in the 1700s along with its
primary ingredient Woods number five the
iron pillar of Delhi
it seems India had already perfected the
art of metallurgy way back in ancient
more proof of this can be found in the
iron pillar of Delhi a plain twenty
two-foot tall iron column isn't exactly
a head-turner but the history behind it
and the mystery that surrounds it is
what makes it so impressive it's origin
dates back to the Gupta period which
lasted from about 240 to 590 seee
it was originally located in Madhya
Pradesh but its purpose was never put on
record some say it was a Flagstaff or a
Sun Dial it's also believed to have been
built to honor Vishnu one of the
important Hindu gods or for a king
presumably Chandragupta Vikramaditya
however these are only speculations and
no concrete evidence has been found the
pillar is made from 98% wrought iron and
weighs over six tonnes any object made
of iron is prone to rust but not the one
thousand six hundred year old iron
pillar of Delhi well it's not entirely
true that it doesn't rust at all
a small amount of rust has started to
form but it's strange that there isn't
more experts believe this might be due
to the fact that Delhi isn't a very
humid city and humidity causes iron to
rust quickly another theory is that the
pillar has a protective layer called
mists away again these are only
speculations and haven't been
scientifically proven number four the
Viking ulfberht sword it was made of
metal so pure than archaeologists
thought it was created with technology
that was way ahead of its time
Viking ulfberht swords are believed to
have been made around 800 to 1000 CE but
experts were sure that the technology
used to make swords of such
extraordinary quality didn't come around
until 800 years later so yeah that's how
futuristic this weapon was only about
170 ulfberht swords have been found this
rarity in numbers has led scientists to
believe that it was a prized possession
only for elite Vikings thanks to
research conducted by dr. Robert layman
from the Institute of inorganic
chemistry at the university of hannover
in germany
we now know the swords composition
Lehmann found that its blade had a high
manganese content and its guard was made
from iron with a high arsenic content
but how they managed to make these
swords at that time remains a mystery
today the slag or impurities in the ore
must be removed by heating it to 3000
degrees Fahrenheit and mixing it with
carbon to make it stronger however this
method of heating iron to such high
temperatures didn't exist in medieval
times back then the common and less
effective method was to pound the slag
off yet the Viking wolf Bert sword
contains three times more carbon is made
from crucible steel and it has almost no
slack making it superior for its time it
was rumored that the swords maker had
magical powers since the weapon was so
advanced well there's no proof that this
wasn't the case so who knows number
three the Voynich manuscript this
strange manuscript has been a source of
frustration for cryptologists scientists
and scholars alike it is by far the most
baffling and unsolvable document of all
time experts do know that it dates back
to the 15th century it has 240 pages
broken into four sections herbal
astrological balneal logical and
pharmacological but this book is by no
means an encyclopedia well if it is and
it's a really really weird one it's full
of strange drawings of unidentifiable
plants celestial charts of unknown
origin and naked women bathing in some
green liquid sitting on giant ovaries
and holding rainbows in their hands you
think maybe that's the herbal section
it's written in a completely
unidentifiable language that's been
dubbed Voynich Eve's who on earth or
better yet in the universe made this
thing
well the manuscript does go back
centuries and has traveled most of the
world throughout that time it actually
went missing for about 250 years and was
only rediscovered in 1912 when polish
book dealer Wilfrid Voynich purchased it
since then there have literally been
dozens of failed attempts to crack this
thing world-famous cryptologist William
Friedman tried to decipher it in the
1940s but to no avail
according to his article published in
The Paris Review Friedman concluded that
it was most likely an early attempt to
construct an artificial language in 2016
another attempt was made by a team of
computer scientists at the University of
Alberta they used artificial
intelligence and even use Google
Translate to decode it they concluded
that it's written in Hebrew but they
need an actual Hebrew scholar to confirm
this and fully translate the whole book
now if you want to take your shot and
try to decode this mysterious and
out-of-this-world book yourself the
entire thing is available online in Yale
University's Beneke Rare Book and
Manuscript library good luck number two
the zheng hang seismograph in 132 c e
jiang hang a chinese inventor astronomer
engineer scientist scholar and artist
invented a seismic oh and presented it
to the Han Court as an instrument for
measuring seasonal winds and the Earth's
movements this ancient seismograph could
actually determine the location or
direction of an earthquake hundreds of
miles away and the proof was in the
pudding the device successfully detected
an earthquake in the west of ulang in
138 C so how does it work it drops a
bronze ball through one of eight tubes
shaped like a dragon into the mouth of a
toad that sits right below each one
which tube it falls through tells you
the direction the earthquake is coming
from scientists from zhangzhou China
made a replica of the device in 2005 and
it actually worked
the replicate was able to detect four
quakes in China and Vietnam but still
nothing beats the original since it was
so far ahead of its time number one
the Antikythera mechanism also known as
the clockwork computer the Antikythera
mechanism was retrieved by a group of
divers in 1900
in an underwater shipwreck near the
Greek island of Antikythera it's been
dubbed the world's first analogue
computer and get this it was made around
200 BCE this bronze mechanism displays
exceptional engineering and astronomical
precision that was you've got it
extremely advanced for its time
according to analyst obscura the
mechanism could tell the positions of
the Sun Moon planets and stars as well
as the lunar phase the dates of upcoming
solar eclipses and even the speed at
which the moon moves through the sky
that's how awesome this device was
however no one is sure who used it and
how or where was made a sophisticated
device like this must have had a wealthy
origin considering how complicated it
was Bill you can visit the remains of
the Antikythera mechanism in the bronze
collection at the National
Archaeological Museum of Athens it also
has a replica in the American computer
Museum in Bozeman Montana Wow
so which of these ancient and yet
advanced technology surprised you the
most let us know in the comments and
don't forget to give this video a like
if you found it entertaining and share
it with your friends don't probably
enjoy it too if you haven't yet be sure
to click that subscribe button and hang
out with us on the bright side of life